Q1. What is computational thinking?
Ans. C)	An approach to problem solving using computer science techniques

Q2. What is the difference between "data" and "information"?
Ans. B)	Data is processed by computers, while information represents real-world quantities

Q3. What is the Nyquist-Shannon sampling theorem related to?
Ans. C)	Digital audio sampling

Q4. What is the purpose of pseudocode in programming?
Ans. B)	To outline the sequence of steps in a program without strict syntax rules.

Q5. What is the purpose of a flowchart?
Ans. B)	To communicate the program logic visually

Q6. What is an algorithm?
Ans. B)	A defined set of step-by-step procedures for solving a problem

Q7. What is the advantage of using flowcharts for program development?
Ans. D)	All of the above

Q8. Which drawback is associated with the use of algorithms?
Ans. D)	All of the above

Q9. ________ is an electronic device that stores data and process data by converting it into information that is useful to people.
Ans. A)	Computer

Q10. The result of the process and computation is displayed on the _______ devices.
Ans. A)	Output



Q1. Interpret how Computational Thinking is used.
Ans. Computation Thinking can be used in following ways:
a. Problem Solving: It helps break down complex problems into smaller, 
more managable parts, enabling indivisuals to develop efficient 
algorithms to find solution.
b. Computer Programming: Programmers use algorithms and logical reasoning 
to design code that can efficiently execute specific tasks or solve problems.
c. Data Analysis: It involves identifying patterns, trends and insights 
to make informed decisions.
d. Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning: It helps researches and 
engineers design intelligent systems that can learn and adapt form data.
e. System Design: It ensures that the system functions optimally and 
handles potential challenges.
f. Robotics and Automation: It enables them to perform specific tasks 
accurately and efficiently.
g. Computational Creativity: It can be used to generate algorithms that 
create novel and innovative works.
h. Problem Identification: It aids in identifying problems and inefficiencies 
in various processes, leading to opportunities for improvement and optimization.
i. Game Development: It helps to design game mechanics, AI behaviours and 
interactive elements that enhance gaming exeprience.
j. Educational Tool: It is incorporated into educational curricula to teach 
students critical thinking, logic and problem-solving skills.
k. Internet of Things (IoT): It is used to connect and control smart devices, 
allowing them to communicate and interact seamlessly.
l. Simulation and Modeling: It is used to create simulations and models 
in scientific research, engineering and social sciences, enabling the study 
of complex systems and scenarios.

Q2. Explain classic puzzle solving.
Ans. The solver of a puzzle must arrive at the correct answer or answers 
by thinking or putting pieces together in a logical way.

Q3. Summarize the general Problem Solving Techniques.
Ans. 

Q4. State the definition of a flowchart.
Ans. A flowchart is a visual depiction of the steps or procedures involved 
in a program or system. It presents a graphical representation of the 
control and data flow across various stages, decisions and actions.

Q5. Illustrate the characteristics of an algorithm.
Ans. Characterstics of a well-defined algorithm include the ability to 
accepts inputs, unambiguousness in each step or operation, feasibility of 
manual execution within a finite timeframe, termination with a solution, 
and the generation of one or more outputs.

Q6. Construct a flowchart and algorithm to find the sum of the first 10 integer numbers.
Ans. Algorithm: 
	Step 1: set count = 1, sum = 0
	Step 2: Add the count to sum
	Step 3: Increase count by one (count = count + 1)
	Step 4: Check whether count is 11
	Step 5: Check if count is 11 display sum else goto step 2
	
Flow Chart: 
	check image: FlowChart_Q6.png

Q7. Discuss the various classification of a computer.
Ans. Computers are classified into two ways based on their size and capacity for handling data.
Size: Personal Computer, Minicomputer, Micorcomputer, Supercomputer and Mainframe
Capacity: Digital Computer, Hybrid Computer, Analog Computer

Q8. With a neat diagram explain the functional units of a computer.
Ans. check image: FunctionalUnit_A1Q8.png
